---
title: "Terms and policies"
date: "2018-06-26"
---

# <a name=""></a> Terms & Policies

 - [Terms and conditions](#terms)
 - [Privacy policy](#privacy)
 - [Cookies and tracking policy](#cookies)


## <a name="terms"></a>Terms and conditions
_Effective starting: July, 2018_

This Roar Customer Agreement (the “Agreement”) is between you and Roar (“Roar”). If you are agreeing to this Agreement not as an individual but on behalf of your company, then “Customer” or “you” means your company, and you are binding your company to this Agreement. Roar may modify this Agreement from time to time, subject to the terms in Section 26 (Changes to this Agreement) below.

By clicking on the “I agree” (or similar button) that is presented to you at the time of your Order, or by using or accessing Roar products, you indicate your assent to be bound by this Agreement.

**1 Scope of the Agreement.** This Agreement governs your initial purchase as well as any future purchases made by you that reference this Agreement. This Agreement includes our Privacy Policy, our Acceptable Use Policy, any Orders, and any other referenced policies and attachments. This Agreement applies to Roar add-ons or plugins that you purchase from the Roar Marketplace. However, it does not apply to add-ons or plugins from other vendors on the Roar Marketplace, which are covered under the Roar Marketplace Terms of Use.

**2 Types of Roar Products.** This Agreement governs (a) Roar’s commercially available downloadable software products (currently designated as "Server" or "Data Center" deployments) (“Software”), (b) Roar’s hosted or cloud-based solutions (currently designated as "Cloud" deployments) (“Hosted Services”), and (c) any related support or maintenance services provided by Roar. Software and Hosted Services, together with related Documentation, are referred to as “Products”. The Products and their permitted use are further described in Roar’s standard documentation (“Documentation”). Section 6 (Software Terms) applies specifically to Software, and Section 7 (Hosted Services Terms) applies specifically to Hosted Services, but unless otherwise specified, other provisions of this Agreement apply to all Products.

**3 Account Registration.** You may need to register for an Roar account in order to place orders or access or receive any Products. Any registration information that you provide to us must be accurate, current and complete. You must also update your information so that we may send notices, statements and other information to you by email or through your account. You are responsible for all actions taken through your accounts.

**4 Orders.**

**4.1 Directly with Roar.** Roar’s Product ordering documentation or purchase flow (“Order”) will specify your authorized scope of use for the Products, which may include: (a) number and type of Authorized Users (as defined below), (b) storage or capacity (for Hosted Services), (c) numbers of licenses, copies or instances (for Software), or (d) other restrictions or billable units (as applicable, the “Scope of Use”). The term “Order” also includes any applicable Product or Support and Maintenance renewal, or purchases you make to increase or upgrade your Scope of Use.

**4.2 Reseller Orders.** This Agreement applies whether you purchase our Products directly from Roar or through Roar “Experts” or other authorized resellers (each, a “Reseller”). If you purchase through a Reseller, your Scope of Use shall be as stated in the Order placed by Reseller for you, and Reseller is responsible for the accuracy of any such Order. Resellers are not authorized to make any promises or commitments on Roar’s behalf, and we are not bound by any obligations to you other than what we specify in this Agreement.

**5 Authorized Users.** Only the specific individuals for whom you have paid the required fees and whom you designate through the applicable Product (“Authorized Users”) may access and use the Products. Some Products may allow you to designate different types of Authorized Users, in which case pricing and functionality may vary according to the type of Authorized User. Authorized Users may be you or your Affiliates’ employees, representatives, consultants, contractors, agents, or other third parties who are acting for your benefit or on your behalf. You may also permit your customers to have limited access to certain Products as Authorized Users, subject to the terms of our Customer Use Addendum. You may increase the number of Authorized Users permitted to access your instance of the Product by placing a new Order or, in some cases, directly through the Product. In all cases, you must pay the applicable fee for the increased number of Authorized Users. You are responsible for compliance with this Agreement by all Authorized Users. All use of Products by you and your Authorized Users must be within the Scope of Use and solely for the benefit of you or your Affiliates. “Affiliate” means an entity which, directly or indirectly, owns or controls, is owned or is controlled by or is under common ownership or control with a party, where “control” means the power to direct the management or affairs of an entity, and “ownership” means the beneficial ownership of 50% (or, if the applicable jurisdiction does not allow majority ownership, the maximum amount permitted under such law) or more of the voting equity securities or other equivalent voting interests of the entity.

**6 Software Terms.**

**6.1 Your License Rights.** Subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement, Roar grants you a non-exclusive, non-sublicenseable and non-transferable license to install and use the Software during the applicable License Term in accordance with this Agreement, your applicable Scope of Use, and the Documentation. The term of each Software license (“License Term”) will be specified in your Order. Your License Term will end upon any termination of this Agreement, even if it is identified as “perpetual” or if no expiration date is specified in your Order. The Software requires a license key in order to operate, which will be delivered as described in Section 10.2 (Delivery).

**6.2 Number of Instances.** Unless otherwise specified in your Order, for each Software license that you purchase, you may install one production instance of the Software on systems owned or operated by you (or your third party service providers so long as you remain responsible for their compliance with the terms and conditions of this Agreement). We also make available “developer” licenses free of charge for certain of our Software offerings to allow you to deploy non-production instances, such as for staging or QA purposes. Details for how to request non-production licenses are available on our website.

**6.3 Your Modifications.** Subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement (including without limitation Section 2 (Combining the Products with Open Source Software) of Third Party Code in Roar Products): (1) for any elements of the Software provided by Roar in source code form, and to the extent permitted in the Documentation, you may modify such source code solely for purposes of developing bug fixes, customizations and additional features for the Software and (2) you may also modify the Documentation to reflect your permitted modifications of the Software source code or the particular use of the Products within your organization. Any modified source code or Documentation constitutes “Your Modifications”. You may use Your Modifications solely with respect to your own instances in support of your permitted use of the Software but you may not distribute the code to Your Modifications to any third party. Notwithstanding anything in this Agreement to the contrary, Roar has no support, warranty, indemnification or other obligation or liability with respect to Your Modifications or their combination, interaction or use with our Products. You shall indemnify, defend and hold us harmless from and against any and all claims, costs, damages, losses, liabilities and expenses (including reasonable attorneys’ fees and costs) arising out of or in connection with any claim brought against us by a third party relating to Your Modifications (including but not limited to any representations or warranties you make about Your Modifications or the Software) or your breach of this Section 6.3. This indemnification obligation is subject to your receiving (i) prompt written notice of such claim (but in any event notice in sufficient time for you to respond without prejudice); (ii) the exclusive right to control and direct the investigation, defense, or settlement of such claim; and (iii) all reasonably necessary cooperation of Roar at your expense.

**6.4 Attribution.** In any use of the Software, you must include the following attribution to Roar on all user interfaces in the following format: “Powered by Roar,” which must in every case include a hyperlink to http://www.Roar.com, and which must be in the same format as delivered in the Software.

**6.5 Third Party Code.** The Software includes code and libraries licensed to us by third parties, including open source software. See Third Party Code in Roar Products for additional provisions regarding our use of third party code.

**8 Support and Maintenance.** Roar will provide the support and maintenance services for the Products described in the Roar Support Policy (“Support and Maintenance”) during the period for which you have paid the applicable fee. Support and Maintenance is subject to the terms of the Roar Support Policy and will be provided at the support level and during the support term specified in your Order. The Roar Support Policy may be modified by Roar from time to time to reflect process improvements or changing practices. Support and Maintenance for Software includes access to New Releases, if and when available. You may use any New Releases that we provide to you during a valid support term in the same way that you use Software, and New Releases are included in the definition of Software in that case. “New Releases” are bug fixes, patches, major or minor releases, or any other changes, enhancements, or modifications to the Software that we make generally commercially available.


**10 Returns and Financial Terms.**

**10.1 Return Policy.** As part of our commitment to customer satisfaction, it is our customary business practice to allow customers to return a Product within 30 days of payment for any reason or no reason and to receive a refund of the amount paid for the returned Product. In the context of Software, a return means that we will disable the license key that allowed the Software to operate. In the context of Hosted Services, a return means that we will disable access to the Hosted Service. We will not accept returns after the 30-day return period. You understand that Roar may change this practice in the future in accordance with Section 26 (Changes to this Agreement).

**10.2 Delivery.** We will deliver the applicable license keys (in the case of Software) or login instructions (in the case of Hosted Services) to the email addresses specified in your Order when we have received payment of the applicable fees. All deliveries under this Agreement will be electronic. For the avoidance of doubt, you are responsible for installation of any Software, and you acknowledge that Roar has no further delivery obligation with respect to the Software after delivery of the license keys.

**10.3 Payment.** You agree to pay all fees in accordance with each Order. Unless otherwise specified in your Order, you will pay all amounts in U.S. dollars at the time you place your Order. Other than as expressly set forth in Section 10.1 (Return Policy) and Section 20 (IP Indemnification by Roar), all amounts are non-refundable, non-cancelable and non-creditable. In making payments, you acknowledge that you are not relying on future availability of any Products beyond the current License Term or Subscription Term or any Product upgrades or feature enhancements. If you add Authorized Users during your License Term or Subscription Term, we will charge you for the increased number of Authorized Users pursuant to the then-currently applicable rates in your next billing cycle. You agree that we may bill your credit card for renewals, additional users, and unpaid fees, as applicable. If you purchase any Products through a Reseller, you owe payment to the Reseller as agreed between you and the Reseller, but you acknowledge that we may terminate your rights to use Products if we do not receive our corresponding payment from the Reseller.

**10.4 Taxes.** Your payments under this Agreement exclude any taxes or duties payable in respect of the Products in the jurisdiction where the payment is either made or received. To the extent that any such taxes or duties are payable by Roar, you must pay to Roar the amount of such taxes or duties in addition to any fees owed under this Agreement. Notwithstanding the foregoing, you may have obtained an exemption from relevant taxes or duties as of the time such taxes or duties are levied or assessed. In that case, you will have the right to provide to Roar any such exemption information, and Roar will use reasonable efforts to provide such invoicing documents as may enable you to obtain a refund or credit for the amount so paid from any relevant revenue authority if such a refund or credit is available.

**11 No-Charge Products.** We may offer certain Products to you at no charge, including free accounts, trial use, and access to Beta Versions as defined below (“No-Charge Products”). Your use of No-Charge Products is subject to any additional terms that we specify and is only permitted for the period designated by us. You may not use No-Charge Products for competitive analysis or similar purposes. We may terminate your right to use No-Charge Products at any time and for any reason in our sole discretion, without liability to you. You understand that any pre-release and beta products we make available (“Beta Versions”) are still under development, may be inoperable or incomplete and are likely to contain more errors and bugs than generally available Products. We make no promises that any Beta Versions will ever be made generally available. In some circumstances, we may charge a fee in order to allow you to access Beta Versions, but the Beta Versions will still remain subject to this Section 11 (No-Charge Products). All information regarding the characteristics, features or performance of Beta Versions constitutes Roar’s Confidential Information. To the maximum extent permitted by applicable law, we disclaim all obligations or liabilities with respect to No-Charge Products, including any Support and Maintenance, warranty, and indemnity obligations.

**12 Restrictions.** Except as otherwise expressly permitted in this Agreement, you will not: (a) rent, lease, reproduce, modify, adapt, create derivative works of, distribute, sell, sublicense, transfer, or provide access to the Products to a third party, (b) use the Products for the benefit of any third party, (c) incorporate any Products into a product or service you provide to a third party, (d) interfere with any license key mechanism in the Products or otherwise circumvent mechanisms in the Products intended to limit your use, (e) reverse engineer, disassemble, decompile, translate, or otherwise seek to obtain or derive the source code, underlying ideas, algorithms, file formats or non-public APIs to any Products, except as permitted by law, (f) remove or obscure any proprietary or other notices contained in any Product, or (g) publicly disseminate information regarding the performance of the Products.

**14 License Certifications and Audits.** At our request, you agree to provide a signed certification that you are using all Products pursuant to the terms of this Agreement, including the Scope of Use. You agree to allow us, or our authorized agent, to audit your use of the Products. We will provide you with at least 10 days advance notice prior to the audit, and the audit will be conducted during normal business hours. We will bear all out-of-pocket costs that we incur for the audit, unless the audit reveals that you have exceeded the Scope of Use. You will provide reasonable assistance, cooperation, and access to relevant information in the course of any audit at your own cost. If you exceed your Scope of Use, we may invoice you for any past or ongoing excessive use, and you will pay the invoice promptly after receipt. This remedy is without prejudice to any other remedies available to Roar at law or equity or under this Agreement. To the extent we are obligated to do so, we may share audit results with certain of our third party licensors or assign the audit rights specified in this Section to such licensors.

**15 Ownership and Feedback.** Products are made available on a limited license or access basis, and no ownership right is conveyed to you, irrespective of the use of terms such as “purchase” or “sale”. Roar and its licensors have and retain all right, title and interest, including all intellectual property rights, in and to the Products (including all No-Charge Products), their “look and feel”, any and all related or underlying technology, and any modifications or derivative works of the foregoing created by or for Roar, including without limitation as they may incorporate Feedback (“Roar Technology”). From time to time, you may choose to submit comments, information, questions, data, ideas, description of processes, or other information to Roar, including sharing Your Modifications or in the course of receiving Support and Maintenance (“Feedback”). Roar may in connection with any of its products or services freely use, copy, disclose, license, distribute and exploit any Feedback in any manner without any obligation, royalty or restriction based on intellectual property rights or otherwise. No Feedback will be considered your Confidential Information, and nothing in this Agreement limits Roar's right to independently use, develop, evaluate, or market products, whether incorporating Feedback or otherwise.

**16 Confidentiality.** Except as otherwise set forth in this Agreement, each party agrees that all code, inventions, know-how, business, technical and financial information disclosed to such party (“Receiving Party”) by the disclosing party ("Disclosing Party") constitute the confidential property of the Disclosing Party ("Confidential Information"), provided that it is identified as confidential at the time of disclosure. Any Roar Technology and any performance information relating to the Products shall be deemed Confidential Information of Roar without any marking or further designation. Except as expressly authorized herein, the Receiving Party will hold in confidence and not use or disclose any Confidential Information. The Receiving Party's nondisclosure obligation shall not apply to information which the Receiving Party can document: (i) was rightfully in its possession or known to it prior to receipt of the Confidential Information; (ii) is or has become public knowledge through no fault of the Receiving Party; (iii) is rightfully obtained by the Receiving Party from a third party without breach of any confidentiality obligation; or (iv) is independently developed by employees of the Receiving Party who had no access to such information. The Receiving Party may also disclose Confidential Information if so required pursuant to a regulation, law or court order (but only to the minimum extent required to comply with such regulation or order and with advance notice to the Disclosing Party). The Receiving Party acknowledges that disclosure of Confidential Information would cause substantial harm for which damages alone would not be a sufficient remedy, and therefore that upon any such disclosure by the Receiving Party the Disclosing Party shall be entitled to appropriate equitable relief in addition to whatever other remedies it might have at law. For the avoidance of doubt, this Section shall not operate as a separate warranty with respect to the operation of any Product.

**17 Term and Termination.** This Agreement is in effect for as long as you have a valid License Term or Subscription Term (the “Term”), unless sooner terminated as permitted in this Agreement. Either party may terminate this Agreement before the expiration of the Term if the other party materially breaches any of the terms of this Agreement and does not cure the breach within thirty (30) days after written notice of the breach. Either party may also terminate the Agreement before the expiration of the Term if the other party ceases to operate, declares bankruptcy, or becomes insolvent or otherwise unable to meet its financial obligations. You may terminate this Agreement at any time with notice to Roar, but you will not be entitled to any credits or refunds as a result of convenience termination for prepaid but unused Software, Hosted Services subscriptions, or Support and Maintenance. Except where an exclusive remedy may be specified in this Agreement, the exercise by either party of any remedy, including termination, will be without prejudice to any other remedies it may have under this Agreement, by law, or otherwise. Once the Agreement terminates, you (and your Authorized Users) will no longer have any right to use or access any Products, or any information or materials that we make available to you under this Agreement, including Roar Confidential Information. You are required to delete any of the foregoing from your systems as applicable (including any third party systems operated on your behalf) and provide written certification to us that you have done so at our request. The following provisions will survive any termination or expiration of this Agreement: Sections 7.7.3 (Indemnity for Your Data), 10.3 (Payment), 10.4 (Taxes), 11 (No-Charge Products) (disclaimers and use restrictions only), 12 (Restrictions), 13.2 (Conditions to Development of Add-Ons), 14 (License Certifications and Audits), 15 (Ownership and Feedback), 16 (Confidentiality), 17 (Term and Termination), 18.2 (Warranty Disclaimer), 19 (Limitation of Liability), 21 (Third Party Vendor Products), 24 (Dispute Resolution), 25 (Export Restrictions), and 27 (General Provisions).

**18 Warranty and Disclaimer.**

**18.1 Due Authority.** Each party represents and warrants that it has the legal power and authority to enter into this Agreement, and that, if you are an entity, this Agreement and each Order is entered into by an employee or agent of such party with all necessary authority to bind such party to the terms and conditions of this Agreement.

**18.2 WARRANTY DISCLAIMER.** ALL PRODUCTS ARE PROVIDED “AS IS,” AND Roar AND ITS SUPPLIERS EXPRESSLY DISCLAIM ANY AND ALL WARRANTIES AND REPRESENTATIONS OF ANY KIND, INCLUDING ANY WARRANTY OF NON-INFRINGEMENT, TITLE, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, FUNCTIONALITY, OR MERCHANTABILITY, WHETHER EXPRESS, IMPLIED, OR STATUTORY. YOU MAY HAVE OTHER STATUTORY RIGHTS, BUT THE DURATION OF STATUTORILY REQUIRED WARRANTIES, IF ANY, SHALL BE LIMITED TO THE SHORTEST PERIOD PERMITTED BY LAW. Roar SHALL NOT BE LIABLE FOR DELAYS, INTERRUPTIONS, SERVICE FAILURES AND OTHER PROBLEMS INHERENT IN USE OF THE INTERNET AND ELECTRONIC COMMUNICATIONS OR OTHER SYSTEMS OUTSIDE THE REASONABLE CONTROL OF Roar. TO THE MAXIMUM EXTENT PERMITTED BY LAW, NEITHER Roar NOR ANY OF ITS THIRD PARTY SUPPLIERS MAKES ANY REPRESENTATION, WARRANTY OR GUARANTEE AS TO THE RELIABILITY, TIMELINESS, QUALITY, SUITABILITY, TRUTH, AVAILABILITY, ACCURACY OR COMPLETENESS OF ANY PRODUCTS OR ANY CONTENT THEREIN OR GENERATED THEREWITH, OR THAT: (A) THE USE OF ANY PRODUCTS WILL BE SECURE, TIMELY, UNINTERRUPTED OR ERROR-FREE; (B) THE PRODUCTS WILL OPERATE IN COMBINATION WITH ANY OTHER HARDWARE, SOFTWARE, SYSTEM, OR DATA; (C) THE PRODUCTS (OR ANY PRODUCTS, SERVICES, INFORMATION, OR OTHER MATERIAL PURCHASED OR OBTAINED BY YOU THROUGH THE PRODUCTS) WILL MEET YOUR REQUIREMENTS OR EXPECTATIONS); (D) ANY STORED DATA WILL BE ACCURATE OR RELIABLE OR THAT ANY STORED DATA WILL NOT BE LOST OR CORRUPTED; (E) ERRORS OR DEFECTS WILL BE CORRECTED; OR (F) THE PRODUCTS (OR ANY SERVER(S) THAT MAKE A HOSTED SERVICE AVAILABLE) ARE FREE OF VIRUSES OR OTHER HARMFUL COMPONENTS.

**19 Limitation of Liability.** NEITHER PARTY (NOR ITS SUPPLIERS) SHALL BE LIABLE FOR ANY LOSS OF USE, LOST OR INACCURATE DATA, FAILURE OF SECURITY MECHANISMS, INTERRUPTION OF BUSINESS, COSTS OF DELAY OR ANY INDIRECT, SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL, RELIANCE OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OF ANY KIND (INCLUDING LOST PROFITS), REGARDLESS OF THE FORM OF ACTION, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE), STRICT LIABILITY OR OTHERWISE, EVEN IF INFORMED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES IN ADVANCE. NEITHER PARTY’S AGGREGATE LIABILITY TO THE OTHER SHALL EXCEED THE AMOUNT ACTUALLY PAID BY YOU TO US FOR PRODUCTS AND SUPPORT AND MAINTENANCE IN THE 12 MONTHS IMMEDIATELY PRECEDING THE CLAIM. NOTWITHSTANDING ANYTHING ELSE IN THIS AGREEMENT, OUR AGGREGATE LIABILITY TO YOU IN RESPECT OF NO-CHARGE PRODUCTS SHALL BE US$20. THIS SECTION 19 (LIMITATION OF LIABILITY) SHALL NOT APPLY TO (1) AMOUNTS OWED BY YOU UNDER ANY ORDERS, (2) EITHER PARTY’S EXPRESS INDEMNIFICATION OBLIGATIONS IN THIS AGREEMENT, OR (3) YOUR BREACH OF SECTION 12 (RESTRICTIONS) OR SECTION 2 (COMBINING THE PRODUCTS WITH OPEN SOURCE SOFTWARE) OF THIRD PARTY CODE IN Roar PRODUCTS). TO THE MAXIMUM EXTENT PERMITTED BY LAW, NO SUPPLIERS OF ANY THIRD PARTY COMPONENTS INCLUDED IN THE PRODUCTS WILL BE LIABLE TO YOU FOR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER. The parties agree that the limitations specified in this Section 19 (Limitation of Liability) will survive and apply even if any limited remedy specified in this Agreement is found to have failed of its essential purpose.

**20 IP Indemnification by Roar.** We will defend you against any claim brought against you by a third party alleging that a Product, when used as authorized under this Agreement, infringes a United States or European Union patent or registered copyright (a “Claim”), and we will indemnify you and hold you harmless against any damages and costs finally awarded by a court of competent jurisdiction or agreed to settlement by Roar (including reasonable attorneys’ fees) arising out of a Claim, provided that we have received from you: (a) prompt written notice of the claim (but in any event notice in sufficient time for us to respond without prejudice); (b) reasonable assistance in the defense and investigation of the claim, including providing us a copy of the claim and all relevant evidence in your possession, custody or control; and (c) the exclusive right to control and direct the investigation, defense, and settlement (if applicable) of the claim. If your use of a Product is (or in our opinion is likely to be) enjoined, if required by settlement, or if we determine such actions are reasonably necessary to avoid material liability, we may, at our option and in our discretion: (i) procure a license for your continued use of the Product in accordance with this Agreement; (ii) substitute a substantially functionally similar Product; or (iii) terminate your right to continue using the Product and refund, in the case of Software, the license fee paid by you as reduced to reflect a three year straight-line depreciation from the license purchase date, and in the case of a Hosted Service, any prepaid amounts for the terminated portion of the Subscription Term. Roar’s indemnification obligations above do not apply: (1) if the total aggregate fees received by Roar with respect to your license to Software or subscription to Hosted Services in the 12 month period immediately preceding the claim is less than US$50,000; (2) if the Product is modified by any party other than Roar, but solely to the extent the alleged infringement is caused by such modification; (3) if the Product is used in combination with any non-Roar product, software or equipment, but solely to the extent the alleged infringement is caused by such combination; (4) to unauthorized use of Products; (5) to any Claim arising as a result of (y) Your Data (or circumstances covered by your indemnification obligations in Section 7.7.3 (Indemnity for Your Data)) or (z) any third-party deliverables or components contained with the Products; (6) to any unsupported release of the Software; or (7) if you settle or make any admissions with respect to a claim without Roar’s prior written consent. THIS SECTION 20 (IP INDEMNIFICATION BY Roar) STATES OUR SOLE LIABILITY AND YOUR EXCLUSIVE REMEDY FOR ANY INFRINGEMENT OF INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS IN CONNECTION WITH ANY PRODUCT OR OTHER ITEMS PROVIDED BY Roar UNDER THIS AGREEMENT.

**21 Third Party Vendor Products.** Roar or third parties may from time to time make available to you (e.g., through the Roar Marketplace) third-party products or services, including but not limited to add-ons and plugins as well as implementation, customization, training, and other consulting services. If you procure any of these third party products or services, you do so under a separate agreement (and exchange of data) solely between you and the third party vendor. Roar does not warrant or support non-Roar products or services, whether or not they are designated by Roar as “verified” or otherwise, and disclaims all liability for such products or services. If you install or enable any third party products or services for use with Roar products, you acknowledge that Roar may allow the vendors of those products and services to access Your Data as required for the interoperation and support of such add-ons with the Roar products. Roar shall not be responsible for any disclosure, modification or deletion of Your Data resulting from any such access by third party add-on vendors.

**22 Publicity Rights.** We may identify you as an Roar customer in our promotional materials. You may request that we stop doing so by submitting an email to sales@Roar.com at any time. Please note that it may take us up to 30 days to process your request.

**23 Improving Our Products.** We are always striving to improve our Products. In order to do so, we need to measure, analyze, and aggregate how users interact with our Products, such as usage patterns and characteristics of our user base. We collect and use analytics data regarding the use of our Products as described in our Privacy Policy.

**24 Dispute Resolution**

**24.1 Dispute Resolution; Arbitration.** In the event of any controversy or claim arising out of or relating to this Agreement, the parties hereto shall consult and negotiate with each other and, recognizing their mutual interests, attempt to reach a solution satisfactory to both parties. If the parties do not reach settlement within a period of 60 days, any unresolved controversy or claim arising out of or relating to this Agreement shall proceed to binding arbitration under the Rules of Arbitration of the International Chamber of Commerce. The parties shall seek to mutually appoint an arbitrator. If the parties cannot agree on a single arbitrator, then there shall be three (3) arbitrators: one selected by each party, and a third selected by the first two. Arbitration will take place in one of the following cities as mutually agreed between the parties: Sydney (Australia), Amsterdam (Netherlands) or San Francisco, CA (USA). If the parties are unable to agree to one of these cities, then the arbitration shall proceed in San Francisco, CA. All negotiations and arbitration proceedings pursuant to this Section will be confidential and treated as compromise and settlement negotiations for purposes of all similar rules and codes of evidence of applicable legislation and jurisdictions. The language of the arbitration shall be English.

**24.2 Governing Law; Jurisdiction.** This Agreement will be governed by and construed in accordance with the applicable laws of the State of California, USA, without giving effect to the principles of that State relating to conflicts of laws. Each party irrevocably agrees that any legal action, suit or proceeding that is not otherwise subject to the arbitration provisions of Section 24.1 (Dispute Resolution; Arbitration) must be brought solely and exclusively in, and will be subject to the service of process and other applicable procedural rules of, the State or Federal court in San Francisco, California, USA, and each party irrevocably submits to the sole and exclusive personal jurisdiction of the courts in San Francisco, California, USA, generally and unconditionally, with respect to any action, suit or proceeding brought by it or against it by the other party. Notwithstanding the foregoing, Roar may bring a claim for equitable relief in any court with proper jurisdiction.

**24.3 Injunctive Relief; Enforcement.** Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 24.1 (Dispute Resolution; Arbitration), nothing in this Agreement shall prevent either party from seeking injunctive relief with respect to a violation of intellectual property rights, confidentiality obligations or enforcement or recognition of any award or order in any appropriate jurisdiction.

**24.4 Exclusion of UN Convention and UCITA.** The terms of the United Nations Convention on Contracts for the Sale of Goods do not apply to this Agreement. The Uniform Computer Information Transactions Act (UCITA) shall not apply to this Agreement regardless of when or where adopted.

**25 Export Restrictions.** The Products are subject to export restrictions by the United States government and import restrictions by certain foreign governments, and you agree to comply with all applicable export and import laws and regulations in your use of the Products. You shall not (and shall not allow any third-party to) remove or export from the United States or allow the export or re-export of any part of the Products or any direct product thereof: (a) into (or to a national or resident of) any embargoed or terrorist-supporting country; (b) to anyone on the U.S. Commerce Department’s Table of Denial Orders or U.S. Treasury Department’s list of Specially Designated Nationals; (c) to any country to which such export or re-export is restricted or prohibited, or as to which the United States government or any agency thereof requires an export license or other governmental approval at the time of export or re-export without first obtaining such license or approval; or (d) otherwise in violation of any export or import restrictions, laws or regulations of any United States or foreign agency or authority. You represent and warrant that (i) you are not located in, under the control of, or a national or resident of any such prohibited country or on any such prohibited party list and (ii) that none of Your Data is controlled under the US International Traffic in Arms Regulations. The Products are restricted from being used for the design or development of nuclear, chemical, or biological weapons or missile technology without the prior permission of the United States government.

**26 Changes to this Agreement.** We may update or modify this Agreement from time to time, including any referenced policies and other documents. If a revision meaningfully reduces your rights, we will use reasonable efforts to notify you (by, for example, sending an email to the billing or technical contact you designate in the applicable Order, posting on our blog, through your Roar account, or in the Product itself). If we modify the Agreement during your License Term or Subscription Term, the modified version will be effective upon your next renewal of a License Term, Support and Maintenance term, or Subscription Term, as applicable. In this case, if you object to the updated Agreement, as your exclusive remedy, you may choose not to renew, including cancelling any terms set to auto-renew. With respect to No-Charge Products, accepting the updated Agreement is required for you to continue using the No-Charge Products. You may be required to click through the updated Agreement to show your acceptance. If you do not agree to the updated Agreement after it becomes effective, you will no longer have a right to use No-Charge Products. For the avoidance of doubt, any Order is subject to the version of the Agreement in effect at the time of the Order.

**27 General Provisions.** Any notice under this Agreement must be given in writing. We may provide notice to you via email or through your account. Our notices to you will be deemed given upon the first business day after we send it. You may provide notice to us by post to Roar Pty Ltd, c/o Roar, Inc., 1098 Harrison Street, San Francisco, CA, USA 94103, Attn: General Counsel. Your notices to us will be deemed given upon our receipt. Neither party shall be liable to the other for any delay or failure to perform any obligation under this Agreement (except for a failure to pay fees) if the delay or failure is due to unforeseen events which are beyond the reasonable control of such party, such as a strike, blockade, war, act of terrorism, riot, natural disaster, failure or diminishment of power or telecommunications or data networks or services, or refusal of a license by a government agency. You may not assign this Agreement without our prior written consent. We will not unreasonably withhold our consent if the assignee agrees to be bound by the terms and conditions of this Agreement. We may assign our rights and obligations under this Agreement (in whole or in part) without your consent. The Products are commercial computer software. If you are an agency, department, or other entity of the United States Government, the use, duplication, reproduction, release, modification, disclosure, or transfer of the Products, or any related documentation of any kind, including technical data and manuals, is restricted by the terms of this Agreement in accordance with Federal Acquisition Regulation 12.212 for civilian purposes and Defense Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement 227.7202 for military purposes. The Products were developed fully at private expense. All other use is prohibited. This Agreement is the entire agreement between you and Roar relating to the Products and supersedes all prior or contemporaneous oral or written communications, proposals and representations with respect to the Products or any other subject matter covered by this Agreement. If any provision of this Agreement is held to be void, invalid, unenforceable or illegal, the other provisions shall continue in full force and effect. This Agreement may not be modified or amended by you without our written agreement (which may be withheld in our complete discretion without any requirement to provide any explanation). As used herein, “including” (and its variants) means “including without limitation” (and its variants). No failure or delay by the injured party to this Agreement in exercising any right, power or privilege hereunder shall operate as a waiver thereof, nor shall any single or partial exercise thereof preclude any other or further exercise thereof or the exercise of any right, power or privilege hereunder at law or equity. The parties are independent contractors. This Agreement shall not be construed as constituting either party as a partner of the other or to create any other form of legal association that would give on party the express or implied right, power or authority to create any duty or obligation of the other party.


## <a name="privacy"></a> Privacy policy
_Effective starting: July, 2018_

###What this policy covers
Your privacy is important to us, and so is being transparent about how we collect, use, and share information about you. This policy is intended to help you understand:

 - What information we collect about you
 - How we use information we collect
 - How we share information we collect
 - How we store and secure information we collect
 - How to access and control your information
 - How we transfer information we collect internationally
 - Other important privacy information

This Privacy Policy covers the information we collect about you when you use our products or services, or otherwise interact with us (for example, by attending our events), unless a different policy is displayed.  Roar, we and us refers to Roar Pty Ltd, Roar, Inc. and any of our corporate affiliates.  We offer a wide range of products, including our cloud, server and data center products.  We refer to all of these products, together with our other services and websites as "Services" in this policy.

This policy also explains your choices about how we use information about you.  Your choices include how you can object to certain uses of information about you and how you can access and update certain information about you. **If you do not agree with this policy, do not access or use our Services or interact with any other aspect of our business.**

Where we provide the Services under contract with an organization (for example your employer) that organization controls the information processed by the Services. For more information, please see Notice to End Users below.

###What information we collect about you

We collect information about you when you provide it to us, when you use our Services, and when other sources provide it to us, as further described below.

_Information you provide to us_

We collect information about you when you input it into the Services or otherwise provide it directly to us.

**Account and Profile Information:** We collect information about you when you register for an account, create or modify your profile, set preferences, sign-up for or make purchases through the Services. For example, you provide your contact information and, in some cases, billing information when you register for the Services. You also have the option of adding a display name, profile photo, job title, and other details to your profile information to be displayed in our Services.  We keep track of your preferences when you select settings within the Services.

**Content you provide through our products:** The Services include the Roar products you use, where we collect and store content that you post, send, receive and share. This content includes any information about you that you may choose to include. Examples of content we collect and store include: the summary and description added to a JIRA issue, the pages you create in Confluence, the messages you exchange in Stride, your repositories and pull requests in Bitbucket, comments you enter in connection with an incident in Statuspage, and any feedback you provide to us.  Content also includes the files and links you upload to the Services.  If you use a server or data center version of the Services, we do not host, store, transmit, receive or collect information about you (including your content), except in limited cases, where permitted by your administrator: we collect feedback you provide directly to us through the product and; we collect content using analytics techniques that hash, filter or otherwise scrub the information to exclude information that might identify you or your organization; and we collect clickstream data about how you interact with and use features in the Services. Server and data center administrators can disable our collection of this information from the Services via the administrator settings or prevent this information from being shared with us by blocking transmission at the local network level.

**Content you provide through our websites:** The Services also include our websites owned or operated by us. We collect other content that you submit to these websites, which include social media or social networking websites operated by us. For example, you provide content to us when you provide feedback or when you participate in any interactive features, surveys, contests, promotions, sweepstakes, activities or events.

**Information you provide through our support channels:** The Services also include our customer support, where you may choose to submit information regarding a problem you are experiencing with a Service.  Whether you designate yourself as a technical contact, open a support ticket, speak to one of our representatives directly or otherwise engage with our support team, you will be asked to provide contact information, a summary of the problem you are experiencing, and any other documentation, screenshots or information that would be helpful in resolving the issue.

**Payment Information:**  We collect certain payment and billing information when you register for certain paid Services.  For example, we ask you to designate a billing representative, including name and contact information, upon registration.  You might also provide payment information, such as payment card details, which we collect via secure payment processing services.

_Information we collect automatically when you use the Services_

We collect information about you when you use our Services, including browsing our websites and taking certain actions within the Services.

**Your use of the Services:** We keep track of certain information about you when you visit and interact with any of our Services. This information includes the features you use; the links you click on; the type, size and filenames of attachments you upload to the Services; frequently used search terms; and how you interact with others on the Services.  We also collect information about the teams and people you work with and how you work with them, like who you collaborate with and communicate with most frequently.  If you use a server or data center version of the Services, the information we collect about your use of the Services is limited to clickstream data about how you interact with and use features in the Services, in addition to content-related information described in "Content you provide thorugh our products," above.  Server and data center administrators can disable our collection of this information from the Services via the administrator settings or prevent this information from being shared with us by blocking transmission at the local network level.

**Device and Connection Information:** We collect information about your computer, phone, tablet, or other devices you use to access the Services. This device information includes your connection type and settings when you install, access, update, or use our Services. We also collect information through your device about your operating system, browser type, IP address, URLs of referring/exit pages, device identifiers, and crash data. We use your IP address and/or country preference in order to approximate your location to provide you with a better Service experience.  How much of this information we collect depends on the type and settings of the device you use to access the Services.  Server and data center Service administrators can disable collection of this information via the administrator settings or prevent this information from being shared with us by blocking transmission at the local network level.

**Cookies and Other Tracking Technologies:** Roar and our third-party partners, such as our advertising and analytics partners, use cookies and other tracking technologies (e.g., web beacons, device identifiers and pixels) to provide functionality and to recognize you across different Services and devices. For more information, please see our Cookies and Tracking Notice, which includes information on how to control or opt out of these cookies and tracking technologies.

_Information we receive from other sources_

We receive information about you from other Service users, from third-party services, from our related companies, and from our business and channel partners.

**Other users of the Services:** Other users of our Services may provide information about you when they submit content through the Services.  For example, you may be mentioned in a JIRA issue opened by someone else.  We also receive your email address from other Service users when they provide it in order to invite you to the Services.  Similarly, an administrator may provide your contact information when they designate you as the billing or technical contact on your company's account.

**Other services you link to your account:** We receive information about you when you or your administrator integrate or link a third-party service with our Services.  For example, if you create an account or log into the Services using your Google credentials, we receive your name and email address as permitted by your Google profile settings in order to authenticate you. You or your administrator may also integrate our Services with other services you use, such as to allow you to access, store, share and edit certain content from a third-party through our Services.  For example, you may authorize our Services to access, display and store files from a third-party document-sharing service within the Services interface.  Or you may authorize our Services to connect with a third-party calendaring service so that your meetings and connections are available to you through the Services. You may authorize our Services to sync a contact list or address book so that you can easily connect with those contacts within the Services or invite them to collaborate with you on our Services.  The information we receive when you link or integrate our Services with a third-party service depends on the settings, permissions and privacy policy controlled by that third-party service. You should always check the privacy settings and notices in these third-party services to understand what data may be disclosed to us or shared with our Services.

**Roar Companies:**  We receive information about you from companies that are owned or operated by Roar, in accordance with their terms and policies.

**Roar Partners:**  We work with a global network of partners who provide consulting, implementation, training and other services around our products.  Some of these partners also help us to market and promote our products, generate leads for us, and resell our products.  We receive information from these partners, such as billing information, billing and technical contact information, company name, what Roar products you have purchased or may be interested in, evaluation information you have provided, what events you have attended, and what country you are in.

**Other Partners:** We receive information about you and your activities on and off the Services from third-party partners, such as advertising and market research partners who provide us with information about your interest in and engagement with, our Services and online advertisements.

_How we use information we collect_

How we use the information we collect depends in part on which Services you use, how you use them, and any preferences you have communicated to us.  Below are the specific purposes for which we use the information we collect about you.

**To provide the Services and personalize your experience:** We use information about you to provide the Services to you, including to process transactions with you, authenticate you when you log in, provide customer support, and operate and maintain the Services.  For example, we use the name and picture you provide in your account to identify you to other Service users. Our Services also include tailored features that personalize your experience, enhance your productivity, and improve your ability to collaborate effectively with others by automatically analyzing the activities of your team to provide search results, activity feeds, notifications, connections and recommendations that are most relevant for you and your team.  For example, we may use your stated job title and activity to return search results we think are relevant to your job function.  We also use information about you to connect you with other team members seeking your subject matter expertise. We may use your email domain to infer your affiliation with a particular organization or industry to personalize the content and experience you receive on our websites. Where you use multiple Services, we combine information about you and your activities to provide an integrated experience, such as to allow you to find information from one Service while searching from another or to present relevant product information as you travel across our websites.

**For research and development:**  We are always looking for ways to make our Services smarter, faster, secure, integrated, and useful to you.  We use collective learnings about how people use our Services and feedback provided directly to us to troubleshoot and to identify trends, usage, activity patterns and areas for integration and improvement of the Services.  For example, to improve the @mention feature, we automatically analyze recent interactions among users and how often they @mention one another to surface the most relevant connections for users. We automatically analyze and aggregate frequently used search terms to improve the accuracy and relevance of suggested topics that auto-populate when you use the search feature.  In some cases, we apply these learnings across our Services to improve and develop similar features or to better integrate the services you use. We also test and analyze certain new features with some users before rolling the feature out to all users.

**To communicate with you about the Services:** We use your contact information to send transactional communications via email and within the Services, including confirming your purchases, reminding you of subscription expirations, responding to your comments, questions and requests, providing customer support, and sending you technical notices, updates, security alerts, and administrative messages.  We send you email notifications when you or others interact with you on the Services, for example, when you are @mentioned on a page or ticket or when a task if assigned to you. We also provide tailored communications based on your activity and interactions with us.  For example, certain actions you take in the Services may automatically trigger a feature or third-party app suggestion within the Services that would make that task easier.  We also send you communications as you onboard to a particular Service to help you become more proficient in using that Service.  These communications are part of the Services and in most cases you cannot opt out of them.  If an opt out is available, you will find that option within the communication itself or in your account settings.

**To market, promote and drive engagement with the Services:** We use your contact information and information about how you use the Services to send promotional communications that may be of specific interest to you, including by email and by displaying Roar ads on other companies' websites and applications, as well as on platforms like Facebook and Google.  These communications are aimed at driving engagement and maximizing what you get out of the Services, including information about new features, survey requests, newsletters, and events we think may be of interest to you.  We also communicate with you about new product offers, promotions and contests.  You can control whether you receive these communications as described below under "Opt-out of communications."

**Customer support:** We use your information to resolve technical issues you encounter, to respond to your requests for assistance, to analyze crash information, and to repair and improve the Services.

**For safety and security:** We use information about you and your Service use to verify accounts and activity, to monitor suspicious or fraudulent activity and to identify violations of Service policies.

**To protect our legitimate business interests and legal rights:** Where required by law or where we believe it is necessary to protect our legal rights, interests and the interests of others, we use information about you in connection with legal claims, compliance, regulatory, and audit functions, and disclosures in connection with the acquisition, merger or sale of a business.

**With your consent:** We use information about you where you have given us consent to do so for a specific purpose not listed above.  For example, we may publish testimonials or featured customer stories to promote the Services, with your permission.

**Legal bases for processing (for EEA users):** If you are an individual in the European Economic Area (EEA), we collect and process information about you only where we have legal bases for doing so under applicable EU laws.  The legal bases depend on the Services you use and how you use them. This means we collect and use your information only where:

 - We need it to provide you the Services, including to operate the Services, provide customer support and personalized features and to protect the safety and security of the Services;
 - It satisfies a legitimate interest (which is not overridden by your data protection interests), such as for research and development, to market and promote the Services and to protect our legal rights and interests;
 - You give us consent to do so for a specific purpose; or
 - We need to process your data to comply with a legal obligation.

If you have consented to our use of information about you for a specific purpose, you have the right to change your mind at any time, but this will not affect any processing that has already taken place.  Where we are using your information because we or a third party (e.g. your employer) have a legitimate interest to do so, you have the right to object to that use though, in some cases, this may mean no longer using the Services.

####How we share information we collect

We make collaboration tools, and we want them to work well for you.  This means sharing information through the Services and with certain third parties.  We share information we collect about you in the ways discussed below, including in connection with possible business transfers, but we are not in the business of selling information about you to advertisers or other third parties.

**Sharing with other Service users**

When you use the Services, we share certain information about you with other Service users.

**For collaboration:** You can create content, which may contain information about you, and grant permission to others to see, share, edit, copy and download that content based on settings you or your administrator (if applicable) select.  Some of the collaboration features of the Services display some or all of your profile information to other Service users when you share or interact with specific content.  For example, when you comment on a Confluence page or Jira issue, we display your profile picture and name next to your comments so that other users with access to the page or issue understand who made the comment.  When you send a Stride message to another user, the recipient can view any information in your profile card. Similarly, when you publish a Confluence page, your name is displayed as the author of that page, and Service users with permission to view the page can view your profile information as well.  Please be aware that some aspects of the Services like Confluence pages or Bitbucket repositories can be made publicly available, meaning any content posted, including information about you, can be publicly viewed and indexed by and returned in search results of search engines.  You can confirm whether certain Service properties are publicly visible from within the Services or by contacting the relevant administrator.

**Managed accounts and administrators:** If you register or access the Services using an email address with a domain that is owned by your employer or organization, and such organization wishes to establish an account or site, certain information about you including your name, profile picture, contact info, content and past use of your account may become accessible to that organization’s administrator and other Service users sharing the same domain.  If you are an administrator for a particular site or group of users within the Services, we may share your contact information with current or past Service users, for the purpose of facilitating Service-related requests.

**Community Forums:**  Our websites offer publicly accessible blogs, forums, issue trackers, and wikis like Roar Community and Roar Developer Community. You should be aware that any information you provide on these websites - including profile information associated with the account you use to post the information - may be read, collected, and used by any member of the public who accesses these websites.  Your posts and certain profile information may remain even after you terminate your account. We urge you to consider the sensitivity of any information you input into these Services. To request removal of your information from publicly accessible websites operated by us, please contact us as provided below. In some cases, we may not be able to remove your information, in which case we will let you know if we are unable to and why.

**Sharing with third parties**

We share information with third parties that help us operate, provide, improve, integrate, customize, support and market our Services.

**Service Providers:** We work with third-party service providers to provide website and application development, hosting, maintenance, backup, storage, virtual infrastructure, payment processing, analysis and other services for us, which may require them to access or use information about you.  If a service provider needs to access information about you to perform services on our behalf, they do so under close instruction from us, including policies and procedures designed to protect your information.

**Roar Partners:** We work with third parties who provide consulting, sales, and technical services to deliver and implement customer solutions around the Services. We may share your information with these third parties in connection with their services, such as to assist with billing and collections, to provide localized support, and to provide customizations.  We may also share information with these third parties where you have agreed to that sharing.

**Third Party Apps:** You, your administrator or other Service users may choose to add new functionality or change the behavior of the Services by installing third party apps within the Services.  Doing so may give third-party apps access to your account and information about you like your name and email address, and any content you choose to use in connection with those apps.  If you are a technical or billing contact listed on an account, we share your details with the third-party app provider upon installation. Third-party app policies and procedures are not controlled by us, and this privacy policy does not cover how third-party apps use your information. We encourage you to review the privacy policies of third parties before connecting to or using their applications or services to learn more about their privacy and information handling practices. If you object to information about you being shared with these third parties, please uninstall the app.

**Links to Third Party Sites:** The Services may include links that direct you to other websites or services whose privacy practices may differ from ours. If you submit information to any of those third party sites, your information is governed by their privacy policies, not this one. We encourage you to carefully read the privacy policy of any website you visit.

**Social Media Widgets:** The Services may include links that direct you to other websites or services whose privacy practices may differ from ours. Your use of and any information you submit to any of those third-party sites is governed by their privacy policies, not this one.

**Third-Party Widgets:** Some of our Services contain widgets and social media features, such as the Twitter "tweet" button. These widgets and features collect your IP address, which page you are visiting on the Services, and may set a cookie to enable the feature to function properly. Widgets and social media features are either hosted by a third party or hosted directly on our Services. Your interactions with these features are governed by the privacy policy of the company providing it.

**With your consent:** We share information about you with third parties when you give us consent to do so.  For example, we often display personal testimonials of satisfied customers on our public websites. With your consent, we may post your name alongside the testimonial.

**Compliance with Enforcement Requests and Applicable Laws; Enforcement of Our Rights:** In exceptional circumstances, we may share information about you with a third party if we believe that sharing is reasonably necessary to (a) comply with any applicable law, regulation, legal process or governmental request, including to meet national security requirements, (b) enforce our agreements, policies and terms of service, (c) protect the security or integrity of our products and services, (d) protect Roar, our customers or the public from harm or illegal activities, or (e) respond to an emergency which we believe in good faith requires us to disclose information to assist in preventing the death or serious bodily injury of any person. For more information on how we respond to government requests, see our Guidelines for Law Enforcement and our Transparency Report.

**Sharing with affiliated companies**

We share information we collect with affiliated companies and, in some cases, with prospective affiliates.  Affiliated companies are companies owned or operated by us.  The protections of this privacy policy apply to the information we share in these circumstances.

**Roar companies:** We share information we have about you with other Roar corporate affiliates in order to operate and improve products and services and to offer other Roar affiliated services to you. This includes companies that own or operate the services listed here.

**Business Transfers:** We may share or transfer information we collect under this privacy policy in connection with any merger, sale of company assets, financing, or acquisition of all or a portion of our business to another company. You will be notified via email and/or a prominent notice on the Services if a transaction takes place, as well as any choices you may have regarding your information.

###How we store and secure information we collect

_Information storage and security_

We use data hosting service providers in the United States and Ireland to host the information we collect, and we use technical measures to secure your data.  For more information on where we store your information, please see our Cloud hosting infrastructure page.

While we implement safeguards designed to protect your information, no security system is impenetrable and due to the inherent nature of the Internet, we cannot guarantee that data, during transmission through the Internet or while stored on our systems or otherwise in our care, is absolutely safe from intrusion by others.

If you use our server or data center Services, responsibility for securing storage and access to the information you put into the Services rests with you and not Roar. We strongly recommend that server or data center users configure SSL to prevent interception of data transmitted over networks and to restrict access to the databases and other storage points used.

_How long we keep information_

How long we keep information we collect about you depends on the type of information, as described in further detail below.  After such time, we will either delete or anonymize your information or, if this is not possible (for example, because the information has been stored in backup archives), then we will securely store your information and isolate it from any further use until deletion is possible.

**Account information:** We retain your account information for as long as your account is active and a reasonable period thereafter in case you decide to re-activate the Services.  We also retain some of your information as necessary to comply with our legal obligations, to resolve disputes, to enforce our agreements, to support business operations, and to continue to develop and improve our Services. Where we retain information for Service improvement and development, we take steps to eliminate information that directly identifies you, and we only use the information to uncover collective insights about the use of our Services, not to specifically analyze personal characteristics about you.

**Information you share on the Services:** If your account is deactivated or disabled, some of your information and the content you have provided will remain in order to allow your team members or other users to make full use of the Services.  For example, we continue to display messages you sent to the users that received them and continue to display content you provided.

**Managed accounts:** If the Services are made available to you through an organization (e.g., your employer), we retain your information as long as required by the administrator of your account.  For more information, see "Managed accounts and administrators" above.

**Marketing information:** If you have elected to receive marketing emails from us, we retain information about your marketing preferences for a reasonable period of time from the date you last expressed interest in our Services, such as when you last opened an email from us or ceased using your Roar account.  We retain information derived from cookies and other tracking technologies for a reasonable period of time from the date such information was created.

####How to access and control your information
You have certain choices available to you when it comes to your information. Below is a summary of those choices, how to exercise them and any limitations.

_Your Choices:_

You have the right to request a copy of your information, to object to our use of your information (including for marketing purposes), to request the deletion or restriction of your information, or to request your information in a structured, electronic format.  Below, we describe the tools and processes for making these requests.  You can exercise some of the choices by logging into the Services and using settings available within the Services or your account. Where the Services are administered for you by an administrator (see "Notice to End Users" below), you may need to contact your administrator to assist with your requests first.  For all other requests, you may contact us as provided in the Contact Us section below to request assistance.

Your request and choices may be limited in certain cases: for example, if fulfilling your request would reveal information about another person, or if you ask to delete information which we or your administrator are permitted by law or have compelling legitimate interests to keep.  Where you have asked us to share data with third parties, for example, by installing third-party apps, you will need to contact those third-party service providers directly to have your information deleted or otherwise restricted.  If you have unresolved concerns, you may have the right to complain to a data protection authority in the country where you live, where you work or where you feel your rights were infringed.

**Access and update your information:** Our Services and related documentation give you the ability to access and update certain information about you from within the Service. For example, you can access your profile information from your account and search for content containing information about you using key word searches in the Service.  You can update your profile information within your profile settings and modify content that contains information about you using the editing tools associated with that content.

**Deactivate your account:**  If you no longer wish to use our Services, you or your administrator may be able to deactivate your Services account. If you can deactivate your own account, that setting is available to you in your account settings. Otherwise, please contact your administrator. If you are an administrator and are unable to deactivate an account through your administrator settings, please contact Roar support.  Please be aware that deactivating your account does not delete your information; your information remains visible to other Service users based on your past participation within the Services.  For more information on how to delete your information, see below.

**Delete your information:** Our Services and related documentation give you the ability to delete certain information about you from within the Service. For example, you can remove content that contains information about you using the key word search and editing tools associated with that content, and you can remove certain profile information within your profile settings. Please note, however, that we may need to retain certain information for record keeping purposes, to complete transactions or to comply with our legal obligations.

**Request that we stop using your information:**  In some cases, you may ask us to stop accessing, storing, using and otherwise processing your information where you believe we don't have the appropriate rights to do so.  For example, if you believe a Services account was created for you without your permission or you are no longer an active user, you can request that we delete your account as provided in this policy.  Where you gave us consent to use your information for a limited purpose, you can contact us to withdraw that consent, but this will not affect any processing that has already taken place at the time. You can also opt-out of our use of your information for marketing purposes by contacting us, as provided below.  When you make such requests, we may need time to investigate and facilitate your request.  If there is delay or dispute as to whether we have the right to continue using your information, we will restrict any further use of your information until the request is honored or the dispute is resolved, provided your administrator does not object (where applicable).  If you object to information about you being shared with a third-party app, please disable the app or contact your administrator to do so.

**Opt out of communications:** You may opt out of receiving promotional communications from us by using the unsubscribe link within each email, updating your email preferences within your Service account settings menu, or by contacting us as provided below to have your contact information removed from our promotional email list or registration database.  Even after you opt out from receiving promotional messages from us, you will continue to receive transactional messages from us regarding our Services. You can opt out of some notification messages in your account settings.

You may be able to opt out of receiving personalized advertisements from other companies who are members of the Network Advertising Initiative or who subscribe to the Digital Advertising Alliance's Self-Regulatory Principles for Online Behavioral Advertising. For more information about this practice and to understand your options, please visit: http://www.aboutads.info, http://optout.networkadvertising.org/ and http://www.youronlinechoices.eu.

**Turn off Cookie Controls:** Relevant browser-based cookie controls are described in our Cookies & Tracking Notice.

**Send "Do Not Track" Signals:** Some browsers have incorporated "Do Not Track" (DNT) features that can send a signal to the websites you visit indicating you do not wish to be tracked. Because there is not yet a common understanding of how to interpret the DNT signal, our Services do not currently respond to browser DNT signals. You can use the range of other tools we provide to control data collection and use, including the ability to opt out of receiving marketing from us as described above.

**Data portability:** Data portability is the ability to obtain some of your information in a format you can move from one service provider to another (for instance, when you transfer your mobile phone number to another carrier).  Depending on the context, this applies to some of your information, but not to all of your information.  Should you request it, we will provide you with an electronic file of your basic account information and the information you create on the spaces you under your sole control, like your personal Bitbucket repository.

####How we transfer information we collect internationally
_International transfers of information we collect_

We collect information globally and primarily store that information in the United States and Ireland. We transfer, process and store your information outside of your country of residence, to wherever we or our third-party service providers operate for the purpose of providing you the Services.  Whenever we transfer your information, we take steps to protect it.

**International transfers within the Roar Companies:** To facilitate our global operations, we transfer information to either Ireland or the United States and allow access to that information from countries in which the Roar owned or operated companies have operations for the purposes described in this policy. These countries may not have equivalent privacy and data protection laws to the laws of many of the countries where our customers and users are based. When we share information about you within and among Roar corporate affiliates, we make use of standard contractual data protection clauses, which have been approved by the European Commission, and we rely on the EU-U.S. and Swiss-U.S. Privacy Shield Framework to safeguard the transfer of information we collect from the European Economic Area and Switzerland. Please see our Privacy Shield notice below for more information or contact us as provided below.

**International transfers to third parties:** Some of the third parties described in this privacy policy, which provide services to us under contract, are based in other countries that may not have equivalent privacy and data protection laws to the country in which you reside. When we share information of customers in the European Economic Area or Switzerland, we make use of the EU-U.S. and Swiss-U.S. Privacy Shield Frameworks, European Commission-approved standard contractual data protection clauses, binding corporate rules for transfers to data processors, or other appropriate legal mechanisms to safeguard the transfer. Please see our Privacy Shield Notice below.

_Privacy Shield Notice_

Roar, Inc. and its U.S. subsidiaries (Roar Network Service, Inc., Dogwood Labs, Inc., and Trello, Inc.) participate in and comply with the EU-U.S. and Swiss-U.S. Privacy Shield Frameworks and the Privacy Shield Principles regarding the collection, use, and retention of information about you that is transferred from the European Union or Switzerland (as applicable) to the U.S.  We ensure that the Privacy Shield Principles apply to all information about you that is subject to this privacy policy and is received from the European Union, the European Economic Area, and Switzerland.

Under the EU-U.S. and Swiss-U.S. Privacy Shield Frameworks, we are responsible for the processing of information about you we receive from the EU and Switzerland and onward transfers to a third party acting as an agent on our behalf. We comply with the Privacy Shield Principles for such onward transfers and remain liable in accordance with the Privacy Shield Principles if third-party agents that we engage to process such information about you on our behalf do so in a manner inconsistent with the Privacy Shield Principles, unless we prove that we are not responsible for the event giving rise to the damage.

To learn more about the Privacy Shield Program, and to view Roar’s certification, please see here www.privacyshield.gov.

We encourage you to contact us as provided below should you have a Privacy Shield-related (or general privacy-related) complaint.  If you have an unresolved privacy or data use concern that we have not addressed satisfactorily, please contact our U.S.-based third-party dispute resolution provider (free of charge).  Through this third-party dispute resolution provider, we have also committed to cooperating and complying with the information and advice provided by an informal panel of data protection authorities in the European Economic Area and/or the Swiss Federal Data Protection and Information Commissioner (as applicable) in relation to unresolved complaints (as further described in the Privacy Shield Principles). You may also contact your local data protection authority within the European Economic Area or Switzerland (as applicable) for unresolved complaints.

Under certain conditions, more fully described on the Privacy Shield website, including when other dispute resolution procedures have been exhausted, you may invoke binding arbitration.

We are subject to the investigatory and enforcement powers of the U.S. Federal Trade Commission (FTC).

####Other important privacy information
_Notice to End Users_

Many of our products are intended for use by organizations. Where the Services are made available to you through an organization (e.g. your employer), that organization is the administrator of the Services and is responsible for the accounts and/or Service sites over which it has control. If this is the case, please direct your data privacy questions to your administrator, as your use of the Services is subject to that organization's policies. We are not responsible for the privacy or security practices of an administrator's organization, which may be different than this policy.

Administrators are able to:

 - require you to reset your account password;
 - restrict, suspend or terminate your access to the Services;
 - access information in and about your account;
 - access or retain information stored as part of your account;
 - install or uninstall third-party apps or other integrations

In some cases, administrators can also:

 - restrict, suspend or terminate your account access;
 - change the email address associated with your account;
 - change your information, including profile information;
 - restrict your ability to edit, restrict, modify or delete information

Even if the Services are not currently administered to you by an organization, if you use an email address provided by an organization (such as your work email address) to access the Services, then the owner of the domain associated with your email address (e.g. your employer) may assert administrative control over your account and use of the Services at a later date.  You will be notified if this happens.

If you do not want an administrator to be able to assert control over your account or use of the Services, use your personal email address to register for or access the Services.  If an administrator has not already asserted control over your account or access to the Services, you can update the email address associated with your account through your account settings in your profile.  Once an administrator asserts control over your account or use of the Services, you will no longer be able to change the email address associated with your account without administrator approval.

Please contact your organization or refer to your administrator’s organizational policies for more information.

_Our policy towards children_

The Services are not directed to individuals under 16. We do not knowingly collect personal information from children under 16. If we become aware that a child under 16 has provided us with personal information, we will take steps to delete such information. If you become aware that a child has provided us with personal information, please contact our support services.

_Changes to our Privacy Policy_

We may change this privacy policy from time to time. We will post any privacy policy changes on this page and, if the changes are significant, we will provide a more prominent notice by adding a notice on the Services homepages, login screens, or by sending you an email notification. We will also keep prior versions of this Privacy Policy in an archive for your review.  We encourage you to review our privacy policy whenever you use the Services to stay informed about our information practices and the ways you can help protect your privacy.

If you disagree with any changes to this privacy policy, you will need to stop using the Services and deactivate your account(s), as outlined above.


## <a name="cookies"></a> Cookies and tracking policy
_Effective starting: July, 2018_

###Cookies and Other Tracking Technologies:
Roar and our third party partners, such as our advertising and analytics partners, use various technologies to collect information, such as cookies and web beacons.

_What types of technologies do we use?_

We use cookies, web beacons and other technologies to improve and customize our products and websites ("the Services") and your experience; to allow you to access and use the Services without re-entering your username or password; to understand usage of our Services and the interests of our customers; to determine whether an email has been opened and acted upon; and to present you with advertising relevant to your interests.

_How do we use them?_

  * Where strictly necessary.  These cookies and other technologies are essential in order to enable the Services to provide the feature you have requested, such as remembering you have logged in.
  * For functionality.  These cookies and similar technologies remember choices you make such as language or search parameters. We use these cookies to provide you with an experience more appropriate with your selections and to make your use of the Services more tailored.
  * For performance and analytics.  These cookies and similar technologies collect information on how users interact with the Services and enable us to improve how the Services operate. For example, we use Google Analytics cookies to help us understand how visitors arrive at and browse our products and website to identify areas for improvement such as navigation, user experience, and marketing campaigns.
  * Targeting Cookies or Advertising Cookies.  These cookies collect information about your browsing habits in order to make advertising relevant to you and your interests. They remember the websites you have visited and that information is shared with other parties such as advertising technology service providers and advertisers.
  * Social media cookies. These cookies are used when you share information using a social media sharing button or “like” button on our websites or you link your account or engage with our content on or through a social media site. The social network will record that you have done this. This information may be linked to targeting/advertising activities.

_How can you opt-out?_

To opt-out of our use of cookies, you can instruct your browser, by changing its options, to stop accepting cookies or to prompt you before accepting a cookie from websites you visit. If you do not accept cookies, however, you may not be able to use all aspects of our Services. Roar and our third party partners also collect information using web beacons (also known as "tracking pixels").

Many browsers include their own management tools for removing HTML5 local storage objects. To manage "flash cookies" please click here. You may be able to opt out of receiving personalized advertisements as described in the Privacy Policy under "Your Choices."

You will not be able to opt-out of any cookies or other technologies that are “strictly necessary” for the Services.

_Updates to this Notice_

This Cookies & Tracking Notice may be updated from time to time.  If we make any changes, we will notify you by revising the "effective starting" date at the top of this notice.

&nbsp;

&nbsp;
